## Module 1 - Create Azure App Service Web Apps

### Azure App Service core concepts

__Web Apps Overview__

Azure App Service web apps (or just Web Apps) is a service for hosting web applications, REST APIs, and mobile back ends. You can develop in your favorite language, be it .NET, .NET Core, Java, Ruby, Node.js, PHP, or Python. Applications run and scale with ease on Windows-based environments.

Web Apps not only adds the power of Microsoft Azure to your application, such as security, load balancing, autoscaling, and automated management. You can also take advantage of its DevOps capabilities, such as continuous deployment from VSTS, GitHub, Docker Hub, and other sources, package management, staging environments, custom domain, and SSL certificates.

With App Service, you pay for the Azure compute resources you use. The compute resources you use is determined by the App Service plan that you run your Web Apps on.

__About App Service Environments__

The Azure App Service Environment is an Azure App Service feature that provides a fully isolated and dedicated environment for securely running App Service apps at high scale. This capability can host your:

- Windows web apps
- Linux web apps (in Preview)
- Docker containers (in Preview)
- Mobile apps
- Functions

App Service environments (ASEs) are appropriate for application workloads that require:

- Very high scale
- Isolation and secure network access
- High memory utilization

__Dedicated environment__

An ASE is dedicated exclusively to a single subscription and can host 100 App Service Plan instances. The range can span 100 instances in a single App Service plan to 100 single-instance App Service plans, and everything in between.

An ASE is composed of front ends and workers. Front ends are responsible for HTTP/HTTPS termination and automatic load balancing of app requests within an ASE. Front ends are automatically added as the App Service plans in the ASE are scaled out.

Workers are roles that host customer apps. Workers are available in three fixed sizes:

- One vCPU/3.5 GB RAM
- Two vCPU/7 GB RAM
- Four vCPU/14 GB RAM

Customers do not need to manage front ends and workers. All infrastructure is automatically added as customers scale out their App Service plans. As App Service plans are created or scaled in an ASE, the required infrastructure is added or removed as appropriate.

__Key features of App Service Web Apps__

Here are some key features of App Service Web Apps:

- Multiple languages and frameworks - Web Apps has first-class support for ASP.NET, ASP.NET Core, Java, Ruby, Node.js, PHP, or Python. You can also run PowerShell and other scripts or executables as background services.
- DevOps optimization - Set up continuous integration and deployment with Visual Studio Team Services, GitHub, BitBucket, Docker Hub, or Azure Container Registry. Promote updates through test and staging environments. Manage your apps in Web Apps by using Azure PowerShell or the cross-platform command-line interface (CLI).
- Global scale with high availability - Scale up or out manually or automatically. Host your apps anywhere in Microsoft's global datacenter infrastructure, and the App Service SLA promises high availability.
- Connections to SaaS platforms and on-premises data - Choose from more than 50 connectors for enterprise systems (such as SAP), SaaS services (such as Salesforce), and internet services (such as Facebook). Access on-premises data using Hybrid Connections and Azure Virtual Networks.
- Security and compliance - App Service is ISO, SOC, and PCI compliant. Authenticate users with Azure Active Directory or with social login (Google, Facebook, Twitter, and Microsoft. Create IP address restrictions and manage service identities.
- Application templates - Choose from an extensive list of application templates in the Azure Marketplace, such as WordPress, Joomla, and Drupal.
- Visual Studio integration - Dedicated tools in Visual Studio streamline the work of creating, deploying, and debugging.
- API and mobile features - Web Apps provides turn-key CORS support for RESTful API scenarios, and simplifies mobile app scenarios by enabling authentication, offline data sync, push notifications, and more.
- Serverless code - Run a code snippet or script on-demand without having to explicitly provision or manage infrastructure, and pay only for the compute time your code actually uses.

__Azure App Service plans__

When you create an App Service plan in a certain region (for example, West Europe), a set of compute resources is created for that plan in that region. Whatever apps you put into this App Service plan run on these compute resources as defined by your App Service plan. Each App Service plan defines:

- Region (West US, East US, etc.)
- Number of VM instances
- Size of VM instances (Small, Medium, Large)
- Pricing tier (Free, Shared, Basic, Standard, Premium, PremiumV2, Isolated, Consumption)



---

### Creating an Azure App Service Web App



---

### Creating Background Tasks



---

### Using Swagger to document an API


---

### Creating an App Service Logic App



