## Module 4 - Implementing Authentication

### Implementing authentication in applications

__Certificate-based authentication__
Client certificate authentication enables each web-based client to establish its identity to a server by using a digital certificate, which provides additional security for user authentication


__Helping to secure back-end services__

Certificate-based authentication can be useful in scenarios where your organization has multiple front-end applications communicating with back-end services. Traditionally, the certificates are installed on each server, and the machines trust each other after validating certificates. This same traditional structure can be used for infrastructure in Azure.

__Azure AD__

Azure AD is an identity and access management cloud solution that provides directory services, identity governance, and application access management. Azure AD quickly enables single sign-on (SSO) to thousands of pre-integrated commercial and custom apps in the Azure AD application gallery.

__Understanding the difference between Active Directory Domain Services and Azure Active Directory__

Both Azure AD and Active Directory Domain Services (AD DS) are systems that store directory data and manage communication between users and resources, including user logon processes, authentication, and directory searches.

- AD DS is a server role in Windows Server, which means that it can be deployed on physical machines or virtual machines (VMs). It has a hierarchical structure based on X.500. It uses DNS for locating objects, can be interacted with using Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP), and primarily uses Kerberos for authentication. Windows Server Active Directory enables organizational units (OUs) and Group Policy Objects (GPOs) in addition to joining machines to the domain, and trusts are created between domains.

- Azure AD is a multi-customer public directory service, which means that within Azure AD, you can create a tenant for your cloud servers and applications, such as Office 365. Users and groups are created in a flat structure without OUs or GPOs. Authentication is performed through protocols such as SAML, WS-Federation, and Open Authorization (OAuth). It's possible to query Azure AD, but instead of using LDAP, you must use a REST API called Azure AD Graph API. These all work over HTTP and HTTPS.

__Azure AD Connect__

Azure AD Connect integrates on-premises directories with Azure AD. This allows you to provide a common identity for enterprise users in Office 365, Azure, and software as a service (SaaS) applications.

Azure AD Connect is made up of three primary components: the synchronization services, the optional Active Directory Federation Services (AD FS) component, and the monitoring component named Azure AD Connect Health.

- Synchronization - This component is responsible for creating users, groups, and other objects. It is also responsible for making sure identity information for your on-premises users and groups is matching the cloud.

- Active Directory Federation Services - Federation is an optional part of Azure AD Connect and can be used to configure a hybrid environment using an on-premises AD FS infrastructure. This can be used by organizations to address complex deployments, such as domain-join SSO, the enforcement of Azure AD sign-in policy, and smart card or third-party multi-factor authentication.

- Health monitoring - Azure AD Connect Health can provide robust monitoring and a central location in the Azure portal to view this activity.

Azure AD Connect comes with several features you can optionally turn on or that are enabled by default. Some features might sometimes require more configuration in certain scenarios and topologies.

- Filtering is used when you want to limit which objects are synchronized to Azure AD. By default, all users, contacts, groups, and Windows 10 computers are synchronized. You can change the filtering based on domains, OUs, or attributes.

- Password hash synchronization synchronizes the password hash in Active Directory to Azure AD. The end user can use the same password on-premises and in the cloud but only manage it in one location. Since it uses your on-premises Active Directory as the authority, you can also use your own password policy.

- Password writeback will allow your users to change and reset their passwords in the cloud and have your on-premises password policy applied.

- Device writeback will allow a device registered in Azure AD to be written back to on-premises Active Directory so it can be used for conditional access.

- The prevent accidental deletes feature is turned on by default and helps protect your cloud directory from numerous delete operations at the same time. By default, it allows 500 delete operations per run. You can change this setting depending on your organization size.

- Automatic upgrade is enabled by default for express settings installations and helps ensure that your Azure AD Connect is always up-to-date with the latest release.

---

### Implement multi-factor authentication



---

### Claims-based authorization


---

### Role-based access control (RBAC) authorization


---

### Implement OAuth2 authentication


---

### Implement managed identities for Azure resources


---