## Module 5 - Implementing Secure Data

### Encryption options

__Encryption at rest__

Encryption at rest is the encoding (encryption) of data when it is persisted. It is a common security requirement that data that is persisted on disk be encrypted with a secret encryption key. Encryption at rest helps provide data protection for stored data (at rest). Attacks against data at rest include attempts to obtain physical access to the hardware on which the data is stored and to then compromise the contained data. In such an attack, a server’s hard drive may have been mishandled during maintenance, allowing an attacker to remove the hard drive. Later, the attacker puts the hard drive into a computer under their control to attempt to access the data.

Encryption at rest is designed to prevent the attacker from accessing the unencrypted data by ensuring that the data is encrypted when on disk. If an attacker were to obtain a hard drive with such encrypted data but no access to the encryption keys, the attacker would not compromise the data without great difficulty. In such a scenario, an attacker would have to attempt attacks against encrypted data, which are much more complex and resource consuming than accessing unencrypted data on a hard drive. For this reason, encryption at rest is highly recommended and is a high-priority requirement for many organizations.


---

### End-to-End encryption

__Encrypt data with Transparent Data Encryption (TDE)__

You can take several precautions to help secure the database, such as designing a security-enhanced system, encrypting confidential assets, and building a firewall around the database servers. However, in a scenario where the physical media (such as drives or backup tapes) are stolen, a malicious party can just restore or attach the database and browse the data. One solution is to encrypt the sensitive data in the database and help to protect the keys that are used to encrypt the data with a certificate. This helps prevent anyone without the keys from using the data, but this kind of protection must be planned in advance.

TDE encrypts SQL Server, Azure SQL Database, and Azure SQL Data Warehouse data files. TDE performs real-time I/O encryption and decryption of the data and log files. The encryption of the database file is performed at the page level. The pages in an encrypted database are encrypted before they are written to disk and decrypted when read into memory. TDE does not increase the size of the encrypted database.

The encryption uses a database encryption key (DEK), which is stored in the database boot record for availability during recovery. The DEK is either a symmetric key secured by using a certificate stored in the master database of the server or an asymmetric key protected by an Extensible Key Management (EKM) module. TDE protects data at rest, meaning the data and log files. It provides the ability to comply with many laws, regulations, and guidelines established in various industries. This enables software developers to encrypt data by using the AES and 3DES encryption algorithms without changing existing applications.


__Encrypt data with Always Encrypted__

Always Encrypted is a new data encryption technology in Azure SQL Database and SQL Server that helps protect sensitive data at rest on the server, during movement between client and server, and while the data is in use, helping to ensure that sensitive data never appears as plaintext inside the database system.

Always Encrypted is a feature designed to protect sensitive data, such as credit card numbers or national identification numbers (for example, United States social security numbers), stored in Azure SQL Database or SQL Server databases. Always Encrypted allows clients to encrypt sensitive data inside client applications and never reveal the encryption keys to the database engine ( SQL Database or SQL Server). As a result, Always Encrypted provides a separation between those who own the data (and can view it) and those who manage the data (but should have no access). After you encrypt the data, only client applications or app servers that have access to the keys can access the plaintext data.

By helping ensure that on-premises database administrators, cloud database operators, or other highly privileged but unauthorized users cannot access the encrypted data, Always Encrypted allows organizations to encrypt data at rest and in use for storage in Azure, to enable the delegation of on-premises database administration to third parties, or to reduce security clearance requirements for database administrators.

Note: Always Encrypted requires a specialized driver installed on the client computer to automatically encrypt and decrypt sensitive data in the client application. For many applications, this does require some code changes. This is in contrast to TDE, which only requires a change to the application’s connection string.


---

### Implement Azure confidential computing

__Azure confidential computing__

Azure confidential computing refers to features available in many Azure services that encrypt data in use. Confidential computing is designed for scenarios where data needs to be processed in the cloud while still maintaining a level of encryption that helps protect the data from being viewed in a plaintext manner. Confidential computing is a collaborative project between hardware vendors like Intel and software vendors like Microsoft.

Confidential computing helps to ensure that when data is “in the clear,” which is required for efficient processing, the data is protected inside a Trusted Execution Environment (TEE). TEEs help to ensure that there is no way to view data or operations inside from the outside, even with a debugger. They also help to ensure that only authorized code is permitted to access data. If the code is altered or tampered with, the operations are denied and the environment disabled. The TEE enforces these protections throughout the execution of the code within it.

The goal of confidential computing is to build a platform where developers can take advantage of both hardware and software TEEs without being required to change their code. TEEs are exposed in multiple ways:

- Hardware – Intel Xeon processors with Intel SGX technology are available for Azure Virtual Machines.

- Software – The Intel SGX software development kit (SDK) and third-party enclave APIs can be used with compute instances and Virtual Machines in Azure.

- Services – Many Azure services, such as Azure SQL Database, already execute code in TEEs.

- Frameworks – The Microsoft Research team has developer frameworks, such as the Confidential Consortium Blockchain Framework, to help jumpstart new projects that need to run in TEEs.


---

### Implement SSL and TLS communications

__SSL and TLS overview__
Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) are cryptographic protocols that help provide communications security over a computer network. SSL encryption is the most commonly used method of helping secure data sent across the internet. Many Azure services, including (but not limited to) the following, support SSL encryption:

- Azure SQL Database

- Azure Database for MySQL

- Azure Storage

- Azure Application Gateway

- Azure App Service

__TLS in Azure Storage__

SSL 1.0, 2.0 and 3.0 have been found to be vulnerable, and they have been prohibited by an Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) Request For Comments (RFC). Many services and clients have moved forward to TLS 1.0. Unfortunately, TLS 1.0 became insecure for using insecure block ciphers (Data Encryption Standard [DES] CBC and RC2 CBC) and an insecure stream cipher (RC4). The Payment Card Industry’s (PCI) Standards Council has recommended moving on to newer versions of TLS.

For these reasons, the Azure Storage team has determined that TLS 1.2 is the best protocol to use when connecting to Azure Storage accounts. To help ensure a secure and compliant connection to Azure Storage, you need to enable TLS 1.2 or newer on the client side before sending requests to operate the Azure Storage service.

Note: While not recommend, TLS 1.0 and 1.1 are still supported by Azure Storage for older client applications.


---

### Manage cryptographic keys in Azure Key Vault

__Azure Key Vault__

You have passwords, connection strings, and other pieces of information that are needed to keep your applications working. You want to make sure that this information is available but that it is security enhanced. Azure Key Vault is a cloud service that works as a security-enhanced secrets store.

Key Vault allows you to create multiple security-enhanced containers, called vaults. These vaults are backed by hardware security modules (HSMs). Vaults help to reduce the chance of accidentally losing security information by centralizing the storage of application secrets. Vaults also control and log the access to anything stored in them. Azure Key Vault is designed to support any type of secret, such as a password, database credential, API key, or certificate. Software or HSMs can help to protect these secrets. Azure Key Vault can handle requesting and renewing TLS certificates, providing the features required for a robust certificate lifecycle management solution.

Key Vault streamlines the key management process and enables you to maintain control of keys that access and encrypt your data. Developers can create keys for development and testing in minutes and then seamlessly migrate them to production keys. Security administrators can grant (and revoke) permission to keys as needed.

__Accessing Key Vault in Azure CLI__

To create a vault using the Azure Command-Line Interface, you need to provide some information:

A unique name. For this example, we will use contosovault.

A resource group. Here, we are using SecurityGroup.

A location. We will use West US.

```bash
az keyvault create --name contosovault --resource-group SecurityGroup --location westus
```

The output of this cmdlet shows properties of the newly created vault. Take note of the two properties listed below:

Vault Name: In the example, this is contosovault. You will use this name for other Key Vault commands.

Vault URI: In the example, this is https://contosovault.vault.azure.net/. Applications that use your vault through its REST API must use this URI.

At this point, your Azure account is the only one authorized to perform any operations on this new vault.

To add a secret to the vault, you just need to take a couple of additional steps. This password could be used by an application. The password will be called DatabasePassword and will store the value of Pa5w.rd in it:

```bash
az keyvault secret set --vault-name contosovault --name DatabasePassword --value 'Pa5w.rd'
```

To view the value contained in the secret as plain text:

```bash
az keyvault secret show --vault-name contosovault --name DatabasePassword
```